---
title:      "marios "
date:       2023-04-04T11:35:00-07:00
tags:       ["writing"]
identifier: "20230404T113500"
---

# Marios words of wisdom
Prof. Marios S. Pattichis gave the following suggestions. These
suggestions are tailored towards my Ph.D. dissertation.

- Introduction chapter/section
  - Introduce the problem.
  - Make sure to let the reader know that the problem is extremely hard.
  - Use pictures, plots, and tables to talk about the problem hardness.
  - Intoduce SOTA. Talk about how amazing they are in solving their own
	problems.
  - It is very important to talk about the activity map in the introduction.
- Itemize or not
  - Use pragraphs when there is connections between the items in
    the list. But when the items are independent you can use
    list (itemize).
- Placement of big procedures, algorithms, tables and pseudocode
  - Push thme to the end of the chapter. If you are working with two column
    format paper push them to one of the colums top. Make sure to use **"pages"**
    to organize your latex.
- Text regarding system diagrams
  - Explain in text each box of system diagram. There is no need to para-phrase.
- Paraphrasing in technical document
  - Paraphrasing in a technical document is not a good option. The words used to describe
    an idea you are conveying should repeat. It will make sure that the idea is conveyed to
    the reader. Paraphrasing will dilute the idea by mumbo jumbo.
- Section titles in dissertation (does this apply to journal papers?)
  - Always make sure to name the section heading has, innoviation,
    new thing in the research, the thing that makes this research
    different from all other prior works.
- Figures and tables in text / description
  - It is important to talk about tables and figures in text. They are
    very important to tell the story. They typically help present the
    idea or concepts much better than text, but they do need description
    for the reader to get the context and what you are trying to point
    out from it.
- Captions: Figures and Tables
  - The first line in the caption should be like title to the fiugre / table.
    After this line we can start describing the figure.
  - The captions should describe only what the reader can infer from the figure.
    We can describe the them but the inference drawn from them should make it into
    the text. 


